# Building operationial resilience in workloads using genrative AI

## Tools discussed
### AWS Countdown
Allows you to assess operational readiness and mitigate risks with support from AWS. They do a 6 week engagement to 

### AWS Well Architected
Is the framework of 6 pillars on how to be a good citizen on the AWS platform 

### AWS Bedrock
Generative AI tool that helps understand architectures and write IaC

### AWS Resilience Hub

### AWS User Notification
Is there a terraform module for the AWS User notifications? Because this has the ability to hook into Teams channels etc. and email.

## Workshop Purpose
- Multiple module that we will use to help us practice how AWS uses certain techniques and questions to assess readiness of a workload.
- Introducing to me the idea of how to do load testing in AWS and use the AWS Resilience Hub to confirm RTO and RPO.

Load testing: d2yvjluvoj59x5.cloudfront.net


## Resources 
https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/well-architected/
https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/implementations/distributed-load-testing-on-aws/
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-set-up-your-aws-notifications-in-one-place/



### Questions to answer during a Pre-deployment
Performance
 Is there an infrastructure stress point in the design? (Eg. network bandwidth on instance)

 Is there an application stress point in the design? (Eg. single row on database)

 What load testing will be performed on the platform?

 Is there a CDN being utilized for this event?

 Has logging been enabled on key resources to identify potential areas of performance for a repeat event? (output to S3 or other?)

 Have alarms been set for various performance breaches? (Eg. CloudWatch or other customer based tool, where is the output going to?)

Resilience
 What risks exist to the stability of the application during the event?
 Is there a single point of failure? (Eg. Single AZ)
 Where is content stored and is it resilient?
 What is the impact of any lost content/data/systems?
 What service restoration plans are in place?
 In the case of outage or performance degradation is failover an automatic or manual process?
Security
 When was the last rotation of credentials performed on resources specific to this event?

 How will the environment be accessed during the event?

 How will the environment be accessed during component/system failure?

Service Quotas
 Which AWS services will be used that may need increased quotas for this event?

 Are there any autoscaling groups that have a scaling policy that will start more instances than the quotas for the region?

 Will EBS storage needs throughout the event be greater than the maximum allowable volume capacity per region quotas?

 Will emails be sent from EC2 instances and at what rate?

 Has the application been sized for the correct amount of Provisioned IOPS and is there a chance this may need to be raised throughout the event?

 Will Spot instances be used and if so could this Service Quotas be triggered?

 If SES is being used for the sending of email, what is the maximum number of emails expected to be sent over a 24 hour period?

Monitoring
 What metrics are crucial to be informed about during the event?